Kunal Gehlot
he/his/him (Learn more)[https://mypronouns.org/]
MBA, Engg. | Innovation, Digitalization & AI
Junior Software Developer, EPG (PMC-AZ)
"There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all." 
                                                                                                                   - Peter F. Drucker
My Story
I’m Kunal, a techy with a passion for innovation, digitalization, and transformative IT management.
My journey began in India, where, during my Bachelor’s in Computer Science Engineering, I led initiatives as a Google Developer Student Clubs Lead and Microsoft Student Ambassador, organizing workshops, coaching my peers in machine learning and competitive programming, and organizing hackathons, the largest of which drew over 400 participants, which ignited my drive to empower others with technology. There, I learned the importance of bringing people together, setting learning goals, and fostering engagement.
Meanwhile, catering to my hunger for entrepreneurship, I got my hands dirty with freelancing and software services, working with Upwork and Clutch.co not only on software development but also to learn client outreach, business analysis, and project management. Highlights included my work with the Senior Architect at Agora.io, a popular video-calling API, where I helped research real-time facial AI to mask video callers’ faces. A second highlight was a PoC project for a UK-based client for a dating app, worth over $12,000, where I led client relationship management, requirements management, and project management in partnership with a development agency.
After graduating, I switched to working as a Software Engineer in Data Science at Health Vectors, a health-tech startup in Bangalore. I honed my skills in Python, JavaScript, machine learning, and algorithms. I developed groundbreaking solutions, one of which addressed a seven-year-old challenge for the company: extracting core medical information with complete accuracy from PDF medical reports to help the company switch from the B2B to the B2C market and produce the company’s signature product, SmartReports. For that, I developed “SmartReader” within 16 months, combining machine learning with complex algorithms to ensure 100% accuracy in medical information. This product is now part of the core of the company’s operational pipeline and “HealthCIBYL”, an upcoming health scoring system to revolutionize insurance underwriting processes in collaboration with partners such as Munich Re and Allianz.
During this work, a revolutionary new technology hit the market: GPT-3.5, aka ChatGPT by OpenAI, which led me to develop PoCs of our solution using the ChatGPT APIs and prompt engineering from Day 1 of its release. During the development of SmartReader and its pipeline integration, I realized the processes within the company were quite fragmented. To address these issues, and bringing my experience from my bachelor’s, I suggested and led company-wide workshops on GitLab workflows, semantic versioning, and conventional commits, and, with the help of my colleagues, developed scripts and integrations to automate checks and enforcement, improving overall efficiency in the company. These processes were a great success and are used to this day. This experience deepened my passion for management, digitalization, project management, and process management.
While working at the company and determined to follow my dream of studying in Germany, I learned German for 2.5 years. Determined to bridge the gap between technical expertise and management, I pursued an MBA in Digitalization and Industrial Change at RWTH Aachen University, where my academic journey was further distinguished by receiving the Entrepreneurial Mindset Scholarship.
There, I immersed myself in subjects like Strategic Management, Leading Innovation, and Strategy Labs led by industry pioneers. The highlight of my MBA was Strategy Lab 2, led by Dr. Grein, Innovation Lead at Ford Germany, and Prof. Dr. Wentzel, Marketing Professor at RWTH Aachen. The subject was divided into two halves: first, finding innovation, and second, marketing it. The entire semester involved team-based work, starting with just a consumer segment, identifying a problem, then developing a comprehensive solution based on customer journey mapping, shadowing, pain-point mapping, design thinking, and rapid iterations to develop a product and build a go-to-market strategy, product pricing, competitor analysis, and sales and distribution. The professors and our peers acted as VCs, and we had to sell the idea to them. This subject sparked the innovator and entrepreneur in me. Following the great works by Jake Knapp (Sprint) and Eric Ries (Lean Startup), I leveraged my past experience and organized sprints with my team. Together, we rapidly explored dozens of problem statements and solutions and delivered a strong product in the end. Our passion and work earned us the highest grade, a 1.0.
The second highlight of my course was during the last semester, which consisted entirely of the Capstone Project and Master’s Thesis. The capstone project was a partnership with various industrial leaders for whom we, as groups of students, developed solutions. The largest partner was Infineon. They had a huge upcoming problem: with more than 80,000 windmills installed across Europe with Infineon modules and new EU environmental and resource-planning directives, Infineon was expecting anywhere from 1 to 20 million such power modules to return due to EOL or maintenance. These would have to be processed at their one location in Warstein, which had essentially zero current capacity to process them at scale. This branched into three problem statements: (1) recyclability analysis for the modules, (2) reverse logistics and management of these modules across Europe, and (3) business model development to make it feasible for the company. Fueled by the success and passion from Strategy Lab 2, the same team came together to target the uncharted territory of business model innovation. Guided by our Capstone advisor, Prof. Dr. Kasperk, I found the great work coming out of the University of St. Gallen: The Business Model Navigator by Gassmann et al. This became our holy grail in finding the right solution for Infineon. We knew something innovative needed to be done, since the problem was quite unique and likely never encountered before, so we followed the ways of great innovators in business. The book taught us a great deal. My favorite reference to explain what we were trying to do is an example of business model innovation: the book teaches that over 90% of new business model innovations come from a combination of previous models applied in a new way. The story goes like this: Procter & Gamble had a new detergent, Oxydol, which they wanted to market in the early 1900s. Back then, televisions were a rarity in homes and radios were the main source of entertainment. Instead of going the traditional route of just buying advertisement slots to market, they made deals with broadcasters to produce shows and, in return, gained exclusivity in advertisement slots. They produced catchy, captivating stories that got everyone hooked at prime time. Later, these shows were known as “soap operas” because they were made by the soap company, P&G. This is the kind of impact we wanted to make for Infineon. Taking these learnings and leading a workshop on all 55 business models, I led another set of rapid sprints, this time four in a day. In these sprints we rapidly selected and rejected business models and combinations we thought would be relevant for Infineon’s case. Afterwards, narrowing to eight final business models, we developed a timeline for the next 5, 10, and 25 years for Infineon, explaining in great detail how Infineon would address the challenge head-on, make critical business changes over time, and remain profitable. It also included a rough Excel calculator estimating how much money Infineon would save over time. It was a great success. We presented our solution at a company all-hands, and the project received an internal innovation award when presented to the whole company, earning us another 1.0.
During my master’s, I was also working part-time as a Network Automation Engineer for Assicurazioni Generali, helping with operations at their Central European data center in Aachen. As I approached my last semester and master’s thesis, I took a long shot by reaching out to my manager to ask if the company had an innovation department, since I had developed a strong interest in innovation and would love to write a thesis with the company on it. Two weeks later, the request went up the company ladder, and I received an email from the Chief Transformation Office at Group Headquarters in Milan from the Innovation Lead of the Generali Group. We discussed a few possibilities, and I decided to work with HQ to understand challenges at the corporate level with the thesis “Optimising Innovation: Governing, Fostering and Measuring Innovation in Decentralized Multinational Corporations.” The thesis addressed the challenges of fragmented and duplicated innovation efforts at the various innovation hubs of the Group in every country, the role of the central innovation team, and how this central team could address the underutilization of their €55 million Innovation Fund. For this work, I had the privilege to meet and interview innovation heads of every country in the Group, work closely with the Chief Transformation Office, and attend the Group Innovation Summit in Paris, learning about and understanding the Group’s innovation efforts and challenges more closely.
After my graduation, I joined EPG as a Junior Software Developer, working in PMC, and am ever hungry for new challenges. I thrive on guiding teams through change, whether it’s moderating workshops, developing agile methodologies, or designing change architectures. Let’s chat if you share a passion for driving innovation, digitalization, and building efficient, future-ready organizations.
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/gehlotk
E-mail: Kunal.Gehlot@epg.com 